One thing is to provide a credit, and another is to get a debit card on time, not to let it go to waste.
Therefore, all companies, even though they trust their partners, but still strictly monitor the debit card.
At every company that uses the credit system, there are employees who are responsible for the status of the debit card.
This is the main part of their work, and they monitor the status of the debit card every day.
They work with their partners, ask them when they will get their credit back, remind them, ask them to get their credit back on time.
Therefore, the control of the debit card is the most important part of every company's work.
If you don't remind your partner that he has to get his credit back on time, he can forget about it.
The thing is that our companies don't always use fines when providing credit.
If fines are not used when providing credit, or even worse, if they are not used, they are not required,
then the companies forget that they have to get their credit back on time.
This can lead to a long-term debt, and even without a reward for this, the company can suffer losses.
The company has to pay additional costs for the service of this debt.
The most important thing to remember is that the debit card is a business mechanism.
It is a necessary element, and it should be used as any other part of the business process.
The company's debit card debt should be in the optimal state, and there should be a certain amount of it.
If the company's debit card debt is sharply increasing or decreasing, this indicates a certain process that is taking place in the company.
For example, if the company's debit card debt is sharply increasing, what does this indicate?
The first thing that should be noticed is that we have to compare the debit card debt with the growth of the production volume, or rather, with the volume of the implementation.
If the volume of the implementation and the volume of the debit card debt grow at the same rate, then a sharp increase in the debit card debt is not a bad sign.
If the debit card debt grows faster than the volume of the implementation, this indicates a non-considerable credit policy.
This means that the money is being exchanged right and left.
This is an inefficient operation of the company.
This is unacceptable.
Therefore, once again, look closely and compare the growth rates of the debit card debt and the growth rates of the production volume.
But the debit card debt is not only increasing because of the increase in the production volume.
Sometimes the debit card debt is overdue when the company you gave the credit to does not return the debt.
This can happen when the company becomes unpaid.
And we can even talk about bankruptcy of some of the buyers.
This is a disturbing sign.
This is unacceptable.
You need to know the financial condition of your partners, how their business is going.
Therefore, it is advisable not to let the partners you work with to be in such a state.
And the last case, but unfortunately, sometimes it happens, when the debit card debt is used to wash money.
When the partners are provided with money not for the commercial loan, but to use this money for another purpose.
The sign of this mechanism of using money is that this debit card debt is not planned to be washed.
It is not trying to be returned.
It is forever without return, but in three years it can be returned.
If the company has such a debit card debt, it is a reason for the state authorities, in particular the Tax Inspection, to pay attention to the condition of such a debit card debt.
And the most important thing is a reason for the owners of the company to pay attention to how their staff uses money.
If the owner of the company is not aware that the employees use money in this way, then it is a reason to make the corresponding organizational conclusions for the company.
We were still talking about the increase of the debit card debt.
And what happens if the debit card debt is reduced?
First of all, again, in the same angle from which we started talking about the debit card debt.
If the reduction of the debit card debt is associated with a reduction in the production load, then this is, on the one hand, a normal phenomenon,
because we reduced the production load, and subsequently the debit card debt was reduced.
There is nothing wrong with this, there is nothing good about it.
But on the other hand, the fact of the reduction of the production load and the reduction of sales is a sign of a decrease in the business activity of the company.
This is a negative point.
That is, the reduction of the debit card debt is not a negative point, but a negative point that the business activity of the company has decreased.
And the reduction of the debit card debt is just a consequence of this, and cannot be considered as a negative phenomenon.
On the other hand, the reduction of the debit card debt can be considered as a positive phenomenon if it is associated with a reduction in the period of its cancellation.
After all, the total amount of the debit card debt is associated not only with the amount, but also with the period in which these funds are presented.
Therefore, if the period of cancellation of the debit card debt is reduced, then this is a positive phenomenon.
It will return faster, and for the enterprise this is a positive point.
Thus, it is impossible to judge unambiguously whether the increase or decrease of the debit card debt is a positive or negative phenomenon.
Positive phenomena can be found in both increases and decreases, and negative phenomena can be found in both increases and decreases.
The only way to determine this is in the context of the change of the debit card debt, that is, in the discovery of the reason why it happened.
And only from the analysis of why this phenomenon can be said to be positive or negative from the point of view of the enterprise.
The debit card debt can also be distinguished between normal and overdue.
The normal debt flows from the business process itself.
The business requires a 30-day period of overdue, so the 30-day debit card debt is normal.
But if the debit card debt is not returned during the period that is stated in the contract, then it goes into the state of overdue debit card debt.
That is, it is kept longer than in the contract.
The overdue debit card debt is harmful for the enterprise, because the enterprise has lost the money it needs for normal functioning.
And the enterprise begins to actively work to return the overdue debit card debt.
Thus, when the enterprise organizes a service that deals with the debit card debt, this service performs a double job.
It tracks the normal debit card debt and conducts an active work to return the overdue debit card debt.
The debit card debt can be managed, and the service created specifically for this purpose actively manages the debit card debt.
How is it done?
There are two phenomena at the heart of the management of the debit card debt.
The first is the comparison of additional profit with the costs of changing the policy.
Look, what does it mean?
The enterprise could use the money from the bank in two ways.
On the one hand, it can lend them in the form of a credit, and on the other hand, it could deposit them in the bank.
And comparing these two processes, we can see which of these processes is more profitable for the enterprise.
And, accordingly, in one direction or another, it can send money.
If working with banks is not profitable, then the enterprise uses the active debt.
If, on the contrary, depositing money in the bank becomes more and more profitable,
then less and less money is sent in the form of the debit card debt in the form of a credit for the enterprise.
This is one direction.
The second direction of managing the debit card debt is related to the comparison and optimization of the length of the debit card and credit card debt.
The thing is that we provide the debit card debt, and the credit card debt is provided by us.
And, accordingly, comparing these two processes, managing them,
we should strive to make the amount provided to us be more or less than the amount we give to our partners.
In order to realize their product, the enterprise actively uses the debit card debt, and, with the help of the debit card debt, the enterprise is provided with discounts.
Why is this done?
Discounts are needed to activate the sale process.
If the enterprise is provided with discounts, depending, for example, on the total volume of the purchase,
then the greater the volume of the purchase, the greater the discount received by the partner on the purchase of the product.
Thus, discounts are used to increase the volume of the production.
The use of discounts leads to the increase of the volume of the production, to the increase of the debit card debt.
As a result, with the help of discounts, the debit card debt can be regulated.
Here is the mechanism, the lever of the impact on the debit card debt.
We want to increase the debit card debt, we want to use it more actively as a tool.
So, we need to look at the discounts.
Using the discount mechanism, we can actively use the debit card debt mechanism.
Why else can we use the discount process?
The fact is that sometimes the enterprise is short of cash.
Interference with cash on the enterprise.
The enterprise is looking for ways to replenish the funds, trying to replenish them in one way or another, but this process is not always very fast.
For example, it is not always very fast to get cash in the bank, even a short-term loan.
It takes time, and the money needs to be fast, very quickly.
And then the discounts are used.
With the help of discounts, the price discounts, it is possible to activate sales and additionally get cash on the enterprise.
Discounts can also be used instead of fines.
In fact, usually in contracts, the combination of the loan provided with the fine is used, in case the return date of the money is violated.
But, as practice has shown, this is not the most effective way to manage the debit card debt.
There is a more effective way, which is that the enterprise is offered an additional discount if the enterprise returns the money earlier than in the contract.
That is, the contract provides for 30 days of the commercial loan.
After 30 days, if the money is not returned, the fine is as much as the percentage that needs to be paid.
And an additional condition.
If the enterprise returns all the money in 15 days, then it will get a discount on the product it purchased in the amount of this percentage.
This mechanism, according to international practice, is the most effective in terms of the return of the debit card debt.
Because the enterprise is a buyer, who wants to reduce his costs of purchasing goods,
and to correctly build up his financial policy in his company, and to strive to pay in advance for the debt he has.
And due to this, to get additional discounts on the product that he has already purchased.
In what case is it profitable for the enterprise to provide such a discount?
The thing is that here again we need to compare what is more profitable for the enterprise.
To use this money for your own production, to invest in profitability, to use it in your production to get additional profit.
Or to leave it as a commercial loan from the consumer.
Is it more effective to use your own resources, your own financial resources,
than the percentage that you will have to pay for the fact that you will be paid in advance?
For example, if your profitability of your business is 40% per month,
and you will get a 1% discount for the fact that you will be paid in half a month,
then it is profitable to recalculate one to another, to get a 1% discount.
Because using your own money, you will create much more profit in your own business,
than if you leave this money with the enterprise.
Moreover, the enterprise that takes your commercial loan,
has the opportunity to have a monthly discount on the payment of the commercial loan.
You do not force it to pay in advance, you just give it an additional opportunity.
And then the enterprise itself decides what is more profitable for it.
So, the practice has shown that using such a mechanism in business
is the most effective way to get back the debit debt.
Therefore, those businessmen who are listening to this lecture now,
take this information into account and try to use this mechanism in your contracts.
I think it will be very useful for you.
In addition to discounts, which I actively suggest you to use,
you can use other mechanisms to get back the debit debt.
The mechanism that is used more often than discounts,
but which is not actively used, is the mechanism of imposing fines for overdue payments.
The fine should be such that it is more profitable to pay it back than to pay this fine.
It is desirable to write down the fines.
Many enterprises do not write down fines at all,
because they do not want to spoil the friendly relations with other enterprises.
In fact, not writing down fines leads to the fact that the enterprise,
in quotes, just forgets that it needs to pay back the debit debt.
It forgets, and then long processes of paying it back begin.
There is an unknown case when for years the debit debt was paid back for one month.
Moreover, there were no fines.
It would seem that the most friendly relations are simply not friendly.
For years they were paying it back.
Naturally, there was no talk of any additional compensations in the absence of fines.
At least to return the amount that was directly presented in the form of a commodity credit.
But such a situation, from the point of view of finance, is very unprofitable for the enterprise.
Because money, turned off from the turnover, does not bring any additional income to the company.
The presence of a fine sanction will to some extent secure you.
Moreover, it will create a possibility in the case of a judicial decision on this issue
to demand a fine sanction that will cover the costs that may arise.
But if you do not want to quarrel, but want to live in friendly relations,
then I can advise you another way to speed up the return of the debit debt.
This is to make a deal with the use of VEXEL with a percentage for the term of payment.
What does it mean?
You provide a commodity credit, and in exchange you get VEXEL.
Immediately you get VEXEL, which says that you can provide it to the VEXEL provider at a certain time
and get the amount you owe.
Thus, you have secured yourself.
You have a financial document that must be accepted and paid.
And instead of seeking a return of the debit debt, you just submit this VEXEL and get the payment.
This is also one of the mechanisms, and very effective.
The next mechanism is to apply in the case when you do not know the business partner well enough
to whom you are transferring the product you have produced.
You just do not give it to the commodity credit, but sell it on prepayment.
Remember, I have already told you today, that in the early 90s all foreign companies
provided the commodity credit for Russian businessmen on prepayment.
This was the norm of business behavior.
This is the norm for a novice businessman.
He comes to you, and you do not know him, and no one knows him.
First, you have to earn a reputation.
Therefore, with the help of prepayment, a businessman earns his reputation.
One time, second time, third time, fifth time.
And on the tenth time, your trust in him gradually increases.
And you say, now I can provide you with a commodity credit, and you do not need to prepay anymore.
The last mechanism that can be used to accelerate the return of the debit card debt is the factoring mechanism.
I have already mentioned that factoring is a modern, new, young, growing mechanism
for the return of all kinds of debts that are in front of the enterprise, in particular, the debt of the debit card.
You prepay the commodity, provide it in the form of a commodity credit,
sign a triple contract where the third party is the factoring company,
provide it with all the documents on the prepayment of this commodity,
and the company pays you.
It changes the debit card debt to the amount of funds that are owed to you.
Not for the whole, usually for 90%.
Thus, the mechanism of using factoring has an economic basis,
and does not contain the mechanism of simply pumping money from the bank.
And it was not a lie to the economic mechanism.
Factoring companies are now developing rapidly.
It is very profitable to use the factoring business for those enterprises that are engaged in production.
Moreover, factoring companies not only provide money,
they also perform other additional functions.
For example, they can track the return of the debit card debt in time.
They take over the function of tracking the work with the debitors.
Moreover, factoring companies insure the non-return of the debit card debt.
And if an unprofitable partner is caught, who did not return his debit card debt,
then the factoring company pays for it.
And then it interacts with the debitor to return its money.
When working with unknown business partners, this mechanism is also effective.
When you are insured and fully guaranteed that your money will return to you in integrity and safety.
But it should be emphasized that the use of both short-term loans and factoring money is only profitable in one case.
If the profitability of the business is higher than the costs of this scheme.
If the business is low-profitable, then there is no point in resorting not only to factoring,
but also to take a loan in a bank.
You should work only with your own funds.
And it is even better if your business is high-profitable.
If your business is high-profitable, everyone works with you with pleasure.
Banks, factoring companies, employees feel great at this enterprise.
And you as a businessman are very happy with the state of affairs in your business.
The next question we will consider, perhaps the last question we have in today's lecture, is the management of cash assets.
The fact is that the assets of any enterprise are in the form of money.
Money on the account.
On the one hand, these money are very much needed by the enterprise.
Because the enterprise has a current operational activity that needs to be covered and the costs that arise from this need to be covered.
For this, money is needed so that it is there every day to cover such costs.
On the other hand, in the conditions of inflation, keeping an excessively large amount in the form of cash on the account is not profitable for the business.
If there was no inflation, then it would be a completely different conversation.
But if there is inflation, it devalues money every day.
It is like a clock, it counts the seconds of devaluation of money.
And the more money on the account, the more it disappears every second.
It disappears, disappears and disappears.
Therefore, having a lot of money on the account means losing a lot of money every second because of inflation.
But if there is not enough money, then you cannot cover your current needs.
Not covering your current needs leads to a failure of production.
Imagine, you can't buy stocks of raw materials, production has stopped.
Yes, you saved, you did not lose on inflation, but production has stopped.
So, again, there is a golden mean.
There should not be too much money on the account, but there should be exactly as much as is needed to cover the current needs.
So that you do not have daily problems in your business.
What needs are being covered?
Are all the needs that the enterprise has to cover with money?
No, only the primary ones.
Only those needs that cannot be transferred even for tomorrow.
The coverage of which today is more important than their repayment.
These primary needs should be covered by money and these money should be on the account.
If there is more money on the account, it means that they are not being used effectively.
They are being lost.
Moreover, even if there was no inflation, we could also talk about the ineffective use of money.
Because this money could be invested in other forms of assets that bring additional income.
We should pay attention to this.
At least the minimum is a deposit in the bank.
There is a deposit in the bank, there is an additional income.
The money on the account does not bring any additional income to the enterprise.
This should be understood.
And we should understand that the money on the account is the minimum sacrifice that the enterprise is making,
but without which it is impossible to function normally.
To determine the minimum amount of money that should be on the account,
we will use the formula that is presented on the slide that you see now.
The minimum amount of assets needed for the enterprise is determined as the ratio of the estimated payment turnover
for the current economic operations in the coming period according to the plan of income and expenditure,
to the turnover of cash assets in the following monological accounting period.
Please note that the numerator here is the estimated payment volume,
that is, how much you plan for the future.
For example, this year we plan that we will need this amount of money.
And in the denominator, the turnover of cash assets in the same accounting period in the past.
That is, how many times cash assets of this enterprise are calculated per year.
This is the peculiarity of this formula.
By dividing one into another, we will get what amount of cash assets we need on the account.
The fact is that the assets that we have on the enterprise are constantly being converted.
Remember the liquidity of the assets, their ability to convert into cash.
So the assets are constantly being converted from material form to cash form,
and all the time money appears on the account.
Again and again you are realizing the product.
So this minimum amount should remain not less, but not more than what is required for the current needs.
And the current needs are determined in terms of income and expenditure.
Here is an important question, that the plan is real.
So that the amounts that must be paid in the current time are reflected there.
And that cannot wait until the additional transition to cash form occurs,
and the money is accumulated in order to make payments.
This is the peculiarity of determining the minimum amount of cash assets.
In conclusion, we will consider an example,
with which we will calculate how much cash assets should be on the enterprise's account.
Let's say, according to the plan of income and expenditure,
the turnover on the enterprise per year is provided in the amount of 500 million rubles.
The turnover of cash assets is 25 times per year.
Hence the question, what is the amount of cash assets that should be on the account all the time.
According to the formula, which we have considered above,
we divide the total amount of cash assets, which should be turned over on the enterprise,
by the number of turns, which will occur.
We conclude that the minimum amount of cash assets on the enterprise is 2 million rubles.
If the enterprise received 2 million rubles, what does it mean?
It means that it should make sure that at the beginning of every day,
on the account, the enterprise has such amount of cash assets.
It can be used, but the next day it should be restored.
Thus, within the turnover, this amount should be on the enterprise's account.
The enterprise works with it, actively uses it, and it is restored 25 times per year.
It is restored 2 times per month.
The amount of cash assets is spent for 15 days.
After 15 days, it should be restored.
And again, 15 days are spent.
And at the end of the cycle, it should be restored and spent again.
Thus, we have determined the minimum amount of cash assets,
which should be on the enterprise's account and used to pay the current payments.
Today's lecture was devoted to the work with the enterprise's own assets.
We have shown that these assets play a very important role in the enterprise's financial life.
They cannot be left to the self-interest.
They need to be looked after closely.
Because their active use allows to significantly improve the financial position of the enterprise.
If the enterprise is left to the self-interest, its financial position will be zero,
up to bankruptcy.
The enterprise's financial service should actively work with these cash assets,
monitor them, manage their debt, and the reserves on the enterprise,
and, moreover, monitor the amount of cash assets on the account.
By monitoring these three processes, the enterprise will always be in excellent financial shape.
This is what I wish to all of you who are listening to this lecture.
All the best to you. See you next time.